"  I know the feeling too.
You know, I'm not immune.
I've been there.
I spent decades trying to
be the version of myself.
I thought the world wanted, the
good son, the spiritual leader, the
successful husband, the respected
man, but underneath all of it, I was
afraid that if I ever dropped the act.
Everything I built would collapse
that if I showed the truth of
who I was, no one would stay.
So I wore the mask and people did stay,
but I never felt loved because the
person they loved wasn't really me.
So let me tell you the most
dangerous thing about pretending.
You can get really good at it.
You can build an entire life
around the mask, career, marriage,
reputation, social standing.
But here's what always happens.
When we pretend long enough, we
start to hate the parts of ourselves.
We silenced for threatening our
safety to begin with, and that
hate, it starts to leak out in ways
that we don't always recognize.
It will come out as depression,
or rage, or anxiety, or chronic
exhaustion, or emotional numbness.
You may have heard this concept
referred to as the shadow.
It's a deep and fascinating topic, but
I think it's too much for this course.
If people are interested, I may do
another course down the road that
covers it specifically and has some
one-on-one coaching baked in to give
it the proper level of support that's
required for something so delicate.
For now though, just know that if
you've noticed yourself doing this, like
lashing out, shutting down, resenting
people you love, it's not because you're
broken, it's because you're in pain.
And pain deserves
compassion, especially yours.
Okay?
The other thing to know is that
the things we hide don't go away.
They just go underground
until something cracks.
But that crack is actually
sacred, and I mean it.
Leonard Cohen said, the cracks are
where the light shines through,
and I think that's beautiful and
it's where this journey begins.
That crack says, I can't keep doing this.
That's your soul, exhausted from the
performance trying to bring you back home.
So here's what this module is all about.
It's about helping you to
understand what you've given
up in the name of performance.
It's about helping you to name the cost
of pretending and what's waiting for you
if you choose belonging instead, because
belonging is the most beautiful state we
can know, but it asks something of you.
It's not passive.
It requires one essential
thing, vulnerability, gross.
Right.
Well, we're gonna explore that next.